---
title: I was here - a tree
description:
date:   2020-09-06
---

I have waited long now, for you and your friends to sit with me like before but it seems that you have drifted away from this place. You will probably be gone to wherever it is that you call home before I die but you are here now, and here I am, a tree trying to talk to you.

I’ve been listening to the folks talking about chopping me down. I heard the other day that they’ll do it someday this week. They believe that they will have done good for this town when they cut me. I hear they’re planning to build a road over this chautari. The highway has brought this place many fortunes and the people think that they don't need us anymore. I heard that they will add my branches to the heap they’ll make on Shivaratri. It used to be that one festival when the entire town gathered around the holy flame beside the temple, but not anymore. They make more than one of those bonfires these days, but not a single flame as warm and lively as it used to be. This town seems to have lost its zeal for festivals.

This place has changed a lot in the past years. Times were different when you were little. The air around me used to be instilled with the aroma of jasmine that fell and scattered around the chautari adjacent to mine. Children would gather around me and sit on the chautari that I called home, playing, quarreling, and licking on to fruity popsicles on hot days. The paper boats you let go off onto the stream every year during monsoon must’ve reached the oceans by now. I used to chase each one of those boats with my eyes until they got pinched into the horizon. I felt alive back then. 

I used to wake up to the sound of your grandmother ringing the prayer bells and the warm scent of incense sticks mixed in the morning fog. I used to look at your veranda; where your grandma used to sit you to apply ointments on the wounds you’d come home with on your legs from crashing your bicycle trying to do tricks. It feels funny now, to think of just how thrilled I used to be when the bunch of you would gather around competing over how many fishes you had caught or how many wounds your spinning tops had endured. I might have let out a laugh or two back then too, looking at you crying with a crab hanging on to your pinky finger after you’d naively put your hand in the buckets you’d put your river bounty in. I remember you and your friends scribbling baagchal boards on my chautari. I could not play of course, but I always felt like I was a part of the game. I wonder if you too in your reveries; think about those days and laugh as I do. 

Dust never settled in the small town of Gagangaunda even before you were born. Folks from villages as far as the hills behind the hills you can see from the top of your house used to visit this place for all kinds of trades. They’d sit under my shade when they arrived from villages before going on about their businesses. Do you see that hill over there? The one south of here; across the river Seti. That’s where dokos filled with tangerines came from in the winter. Some people would bring dokos stacked with even more dokos to sell at your neighbors shop across the street. This place used to be a bustling bazaar. An oasis for traders. Everyone brought what they had grown and made. They took with them, what they needed from each other and from the shops in this town. The trades seem to be doing fine now too but oh just how jolly this place used to be. I see that your neighbor’s shop sells more plastic buckets than it sells doko’s now. Giant wheels come rumbling in, bringing vegetables and all sorts of goods from places farther than where rivers meet the oceans, I hear. You people seem to have done wonders with your vehicles and your roads. People do not need to come here or to go anywhere anymore. It’s good for you but it's just that the commotion that blew through the air in this town back then was not thickened with smoke.

I’ll miss this place if there is such a thing as an afterlife. I’ll miss the jasmine tree and the ants that come out from the cracks in this chautari, one by one in a single file line, like the thoughts that enter your mind when you cannot sleep. I’m happy though, that the last of those jasmine flowers found their way into your grandma’s pooja room. That tree has been silent lately. Maybe she knew about this even before I found out. Maybe, somehow the flowers laying next to the gods told her about it all.

You see, when you’ve lived as long as I have, you get used to things changing around you. You hold onto things on the way but you cannot keep them close to you forever. You let go and soak in the change deep in your lungs because if you don't, the things that you hold on to will choke you instead. You probably know all these things yourself. You seem to have let go of this place anyway, like the balloons you let go of your tiny hands. You seem to have embraced new places and the new people that you call friends now. Maybe, you understand change better than I do.
