---
layout: post
title: There
description: somewhere around a cliff
---

I noticed her walking to my side from behind me when I stopped to look below, at a couple of fishermen throwing nets on the river. I did not notice her tailing me along the dirt trail. I did not smell the fragrance of jasmine that instilled the air around her and neither did I hear the chiming of knee high grasses tickling her legs and caressing her skirt.

She sat with me as I sat down there on that cliff, drawing circles on the gap of the ground between us with her middle finger, stirring with it into the air, the aroma of jasmine that I inhaled with each drag of the cigarette I had in my hand. The dirt along the circle that she drew had started to coalesce into a slurry, and inside that circle were a couple of ants that seemed too confused as to why they were there in the first place. 

The last few puffs of the cigarette raked the insides of my throat. I put the cigarette out in the middle of that circle and with it crushed one of the ants that had given up trying to get out of that fence.

I looked, for a while at the other ant that listlessly rummaged within that tiny confinement and looked, then at her and then at her. She placed her hand on my shoulder and smiled looking at me. The grass underneath her thighs started to turn brown and it crumbled as she leaned towards me and disappeared before whispering into my ears.
 
The clouds were not happy today. They did not smile at me when I looked up. They seemed to have been blanketed in a  gloom. My presence at that place seemed not to matter any more.

Anyway, I was not there because I liked the clouds. I was there because, faces familiar and unfamiliar alike, scream at me and the noises echo in the holes under my eyes. Because there I could see the shepherd-girl hopping around with her cattle on the cliff opposite. There I was with the dragonflies that drifted with the wind and with the kingfishers that dipped into the river below. And there a butterfly would greet me every once in a while and there I could pick the wildflowers that bloom every morning only so that I could mash them between my fingers. There I could dangle my legs and waltz with the cicadas singing from the bushes behind me. There I could breathe and there I could disappear for a while.
